---
layout     : post
title      : "P5 Blog Post 1"
date       : 2022-08-19
categories : RMIT CCS
---

For my code, I was looking towards the idea of revolving shapes, sort of like a gyroscope. From deciding that i would like to investigate gyroscope based movement, I had to look towards 3D shapes inside p5, and that’s where my journey began

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gyroscope#:~:text=A%20gyroscope%20(from%20Ancient%20Greek,assume%20any%20orientation%20by%20itself

Gyroscope above that helped me formulate the idea, i also looked towards big existing examples in games or accessories such as astronomical rings. 

https://www.jeulia.com/product-astronomical-sphere-sterling-silver-ring-cid73-jecc0043?__currency__=AUD&country=AU&utm_source=google&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=surfaces&gclid=CjwKCAjwpKyYBhB7EiwAU2Hn2X2gaNR8Xx11bukKUtfv5TSXXzvVZzHPIoM4TpOaoj3CpCRFQmTXUxoCxywQAvD_BwE

Astronomical Ring 

https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/minecraft_gamepedia/images/b/b4/End_Crystal_BE3.gif/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/150?cb=20200911151430

Minecraft End Crystal

The links above explore the notion of my idea, it conveys a very ethereal and mystical vibe, something straight out of a fantasy world full of mystery. The reason I chose an astronomical ring was because I always love fidgeting around with the ring components and moving it around. I felt it would be a really good aesthetic to try and recreate visually. Another example that came to mind was the prominent use throughout games, a good example was Minecraft with their End Crystals that are surrounding the Ender Dragon. The way the shapes rotate in different directions create this like autonomous feel but it feels somewhat alive or conscious, this part makes it feel like we’re watching something beyond us, something we can’t quite tap into.

I was also a big fan of Skyrim, within skyrim existed a long forgotten race of the Dwarves where their creations outlived their masters, and they always had revolving gears that painted a super eerie but alluring vibe to their craftwork. Combining this sense of handiwork that evokes mysteriousness with the satisfying aesthetic of seeing revolving shapes intertwining within each other in a way that feels alive is what I aim to do.
